Pesticide exposure from fresh tomatoes and its relationship with pesticide application practices
	Tomato pesticides health risk was assessed in Meru district of Arusha region, one of the key tomato producers in Tanzania. Tomato samples and 
consumption information were collected from 50 farmers using Food and Drug Administration standards and twice administered twenty-four hour recall 
questionnaire respectively. Analysis for pesticide residues was done using Gas Chromatography Mass Spectrometry. Dietary pesticide exposure was estimated 
deterministically by combining pesticide residue levels and tomato consumption levels. Pesticide levels were detected for; permethrin (mean, 5.2899 mg/kg),
 chlorpyrifos (mean, 7.5281 mg/kg) and ridomil (mean, 2,854.279 mg/kg) in 18% of samples. Health Risk Indices, determined as ratio of estimated daily intake 
to acceptable daily exposure, for chlorpyrifos, permethrin and ridomil were greater than one. This implies that, lifetime consumption of fresh tomatoes can pose
 health risk for chlorpyrifos, permethrin and ridomil. Awareness raising on good practices for pesticide application and food safety strengthening are 
recommended to protect public health against pesticides.

stay away! Artificially ripened mangoes can land you in hospital, india today news
Most mangoes that are currently being sold in every nook and corner in Delhi have been artificially ripened using harmful chemicals. Their consumption causes 
several harmful effects, including neurological disorders, doctors and experts claim.
	Mango dealers in the Capital also agree with the fact that calcium carbide-ripened fruits may harm consumers.
 Dr Varun Aggarwal of the Lady Hardinge Medical College, explains: "Calcium carbide, once dissolved in water, produces acetylene gas. 
Acetylene acts as an asphyxiant and may affect the neurological system by inducing prolonged hypoxia. This leads to headaches, dizziness, mood disturbances, 
sleepiness, mental confusion, memory loss and seizures." He adds: "Excessive consumption of calcium carbide labelled fruits can even be fatal."
		As per Ashwin Bhadri, use of calcium carbide for artificial ripening is prohibited by FSSAI, considering the health problems they pose. 
From disorders like dizziness, sleepiness, mental confusion and memory distortion, calcium carbide is known to affect the neurological system. 
The traces of arsenic and phosphorous hydride cause additional damage to the hormonal functioning.

The fruit quality falls substantially with the use of calcium carbide; the fruit is overly soft, lacks the natural sweetness that otherwise it might have and rot 
quicker than the natural pace. Since the quantity of calcium carbide depends on how raw the product is, the level of toxicity increases considerably.


cabbage
	Toxic greens! Your veggies may be laced with pesticides

Read more at:
http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/articleshow/67213517.cms?utm_source=contentofinterest&utm_medium=text&utm_campaign=cppst
	A study of the NIPHM monthly reports for 2018 reveals the presence of many toxins in vegetables such as tomato, brinjal, cabbage, okra, 
green chilli, French beans, coccinea, bottle gourd and cauliflower. Some of the chemicals are not recommended, which means they are not meant for human 
consumption or spraying on vegetables.Five of the 27 samples of cabbage collected in August from Shamshabad, Mehdipatnam and Dairy Farm showed the
 presence of residues of Carbendazim, Metalaxyl, Captafol, Thiophanate methyl, Indoxacarb, Novaluron and Ethion. In July, all the 15 samples of capsicum
 collected from Mehdipatnam and Shamshabad had residues of Acephate, Carbendazim, Imidacloprid, Flusilazole, Tricyclazole, Fenpropathrin, Phenol,4-Bromo-
2-Chloro, Bifenthrin and Thiophanate methyl.


Indian food laced with some of the highest amounts of toxic pesticide residues in the world//NewsMagazineCover StoryIndian food laced with some of the 
highest amounts of toxic pesticide residues in the world
		Repeated surveys have shown that Indian food is now laced with one of the highest amount of toxic pesticide residues in the world. This 
has now become a serious health hazard. Yet pesticide usage continues to grow, there is rampant misuse, and virtually no action is taken to control the menace.